Hi.
I am Shawna Coronado and today I am going
to trim my 35 year old tree.
I brought an expert from Bartlet Tree Experts
with me, Tom Tyler.
And he is here to really help me learn, and
help you learn, how to do this.
If you look right there you can see how I
have just lopped off the ends.
And I have done that all over the tree.
And now, these if you look right there, those
branches are completely dead and need to be
removed as well.
So, Tom, can you tell us, why is it important
to prune a tree?
This tree is not growing in its natural environment.
It has got all the great things it requires
– sun, water, nutrition – so it is growing
a lot.
It becomes very heavy.
It becomes very sick.
It becomes more prone to breakage as a result.
This is what they have done to protect my
baby.
The hostas.
I was very concerned.
This is going to be my vegetable garden.
And you can see over there I have piles of
rotted manure all ready to spread for the
season.
I use no chemicals in the lawn and in the
garden so it is very important to me to protect
what we have and obviously they are doing
a very good job.
Can you tell me – by the way, this is Tony
– can you tell me what tools you are going
to be using today and how you are going to
use them?
Well I have the ARS handsaw, right here, pole
pruner, and other tools.
And you have this giant backpack.
Do you like climb up like a mountain climber
and?
Only on ginormous trees.
This is not so ginormous.
All right, Tony, what is the next step?
All right.
Now that we have trimmed it about 15% and
we got all your conflicting limbs out.
So deadwood and anything that was putting
too much weight at the end.
And now we are going to start shaping the
tree.
Awesome.
So you can get that visual that you want.
Behind me you can see that Manuel is cutting
off part of the three that is on the top.
Topping off the tree – that is not supposed
to be good, but in this instance, it is ok.
Right.
This would not really be considered topping.
What he is doing is – we call it reduction
pruning – so it is shortening the limbs
but we shorten them properly.
He cuts them back to other branches so that
the cut will actually heal.
So we are all done and the tree looks 100%
better.
I cannot wait to see the before and the after
pics.
Really, Bartlet Tree Company has been really
great.
They are the tree experts.
I can tell the difference.
Ladies.
I found out that Tony is single and he lives
in the Chicagoland area.
Send me a note and you two can chat.
There you go.